To be clear, psychotic individuals are
typically at risk for abuse from other
people. However, individuals in this
range of functioning can also be
unpredictable, impulsive, or even
dangerous under the right circumstances.
They may believe that they're fighting
for their very survival in situations
where most people would only be mildly
anxious. If you begin to suspect that a
person is psychotic, then it's best to
avoid confrontations. It's likely that
they won't be able to engage in rational
or productive discourse. They will more
likely perceive your confrontation as a
threat, confusing it with already
terrifying, primitive anxieties that
can't be effectively managed. The best
thing to do is to be supportive but
boundared. Offer reassurances if the
person is frightened and seek help if
the person is a danger to themselves or
to someone